Nursemaid's elbow and pulled elbow
are common names for
subluxation of the radial head.
They all refer to an injury
to the ligament that keeps
the radius and ulna
the two bones of the lower arm
in place.
Most of the children who get
this injury are 3 years or younger.
The injury occurs when a strong
force is exerted on the elbow,
such as an adult pulling on the
child's hand or forearm,
or the child falling away
while an adult holds his arm.
To treat the injury,
your child’s healthcare provider moves
the bone and ligament back
to their correct positions.
Your child can usually begin to use
his arm again within a few minutes
after being treated.